# PRINCE2-Certification-Course-Structure-and-its-benefits-
PRINCE2 (PRojects IN Controlled Environment) is a structured project management methodology, recognized as the de-facto standard for project management across the globe. PRINCE2 Foundation and Practitioner are process driven approaches that emphasize on dividing projects into manageable and controllable stages, irrespective of the type and size of project.  It is a flexible, adaptable and user-friendly project management method that helps you decide who should be involved and sort their responsibilities accordingly. PRINCE2 can be applied to various projects, whether it is construction, engineering, IT, business or even finance. In the past, it has been aimed at IT projects, and so it is still well used in this area however there has been significant growth recently in other industries. It comprises of an eight-step process which is designed using the best practices from various industries and backgrounds which comprises of:     • Start-up      • Direction      • Initiation      • Stage control      • Stage boundary management      • Planning      • Product delivery management      • Closing  What are the different levels of PRINCE2? PRINCE2 Foundation: PRINCE2 Foundation is an entry level certification that teaches principles and terminologies to act as an informed member of the project management team within a PRINCE2 environment supporting. PRINCE2 Practitioner: PRINCE2 Practitioner certification program teaches you to run and manage projects. It helps you apply and tailor the methodologies in projects within a controlled environment. While PRINCE2 Foundation gives a fair understanding of the project management methodologies, it is a mandatory step to proceed with Practitioner. What are the benefits of PRINCE2? The following are the benefits of PRINCE2:     • Most broadly used approach that it can be used in various kinds and sizes of projects     • Segregate projects and divide work efficiently that further enhances the process by simplifying it     • PRINCE2 promises customer satisfaction with the skills provided during the course and keeping them informed from time to time What are the Principles of PRINCE2?     • Continued Business Justification     • Learn from Experience     • Defined Roles and Responsibilities     • Manage by  Stages     • Manage by Exceptions     • Focus on Products     • Tailored to the Environment PRINCE2 Foundation and Practitioner will provide you with the best project management techniques that is globally recognized and applied. To get certified, enrol for the PRINCE2 Foundation and Practitioner Certification Training course. 
